AI-based revision using gpt-4-turbo-preview (#7)
pivlab/manubot-gpt-manuscript: content/04.results.md

### Evaluation setup

> <!-- In addition, there could be multiple different yet valid revisions with a varying degree of quality. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For the human assessments, we used three of our own manuscripts (Table @tbl:manuscripts): the Clustermatch Correlation Coefficient (CCC) [@doi:10.1101/2022.06.15.496326], PhenoPLIER [@doi:10.1038/s41467-023-41057-4], and Manubot-AI (this manuscript).
CCC is a new correlation coefficient applied to transcriptomic data, while PhenoPLIER is a framework consisting of three different methods used in genetic studies.
CCC falls under the field of computational biology, whereas PhenoPLIER pertains to genomic medicine.

> CCC outlines one computational method applied to a specific data type (correlation to gene expression), in contrast, PhenoPLIER describes a framework that integrates three different approaches (regression, clustering, and drug-disease prediction) using data from genome-wide and transcription-wide association studies (GWAS and TWAS), gene expression, and transcriptional responses to small molecule perturbations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CCC outlines one computational method applied to a specific data type (correlation to gene expression).
In contrast, PhenoPLIER describes a framework that integrates three different approaches (regression, clustering, and drug-disease prediction) using data from genome-wide and transcription-wide association studies (GWAS and TWAS), gene expression, and transcriptional responses to small molecule perturbations.
```

Thus, CCC has a simpler structure, while PhenoPLIER is a more complex manuscript with additional figures and tables, along with a Methods section that includes equations.
The third manuscript, Manubot-AI, has a much simpler structure and was written and revised using our tool prior to submission, demonstrating a practical AI-based revision use case.
For the automatic assessments, we incorporated two external manuscripts (with IDs BioChatter and Epistasis in Table @tbl:manuscripts).

#### Evaluation using human assessments

> The paragraph is already well-written and the Markdown formatting has been correctly applied.
> However, for clarity and precision, a minor adjustment can be made to ensure consistency in the explanation of the process.
> Here is the revised paragraph with the preservation of all Markdown formatting:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We enabled the Manubot AI revision workflow in the GitHub repositories of the three manuscripts (CCC, PhenoPLIER, and Manubot-AI).
This added the "ai-revision" workflow to the "Actions" tab of each repository.
We manually triggered the workflow and utilized the `text-davinci-003` language model to generate one pull request (PR) per manuscript.
These PRs can be accessed from the "Pull requests" tab of each repository.
The PRs display all the differences between the original text and the AI-based revision suggestions.

> When manually assessing the quality of the revisions, we considered whether the revision: 1) preserve the original meaning, 2) preserve important details, 4) introduced new and incorrect information, and 5) preserve the correct Markdown format (e.g., citations, equations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When manually assessing the quality of the revisions, we considered whether the revision:
1) preserve the original meaning,
2) preserve important details,
4) introduced new and incorrect information, and
5) preserve the correct Markdown format (e.g., citations, equations).
```

### Human assessments across different sections

> Following our criteria for human assessments (see above), we inspected the PRs (Pull Requests) generated by the AI-based workflow and reported on our assessment of the changes suggested by the tool across different sections of the manuscripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following our criteria for human assessments (see above), we inspected the PRs generated by the AI-based workflow and reported on our assessment of the changes suggested by the tool across different sections of the manuscripts.
```

We also observed a high-quality revision of the introduction of PhenoPLIER.
However, the model failed to maintain the format of citations in one paragraph.

> Additionally, the model did not converge to a revised text for the last paragraph, and our tool left an error message as an HTML comment at the top: `<!-- The AI model returned an empty string -->`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the model did not converge to a revised text for the last paragraph, and our tool left an error message as an HTML comment at the top: `The AI model returned an empty string`.
```

We tested the tool on a paragraph from the Results section of CCC (Figure @fig:results:ccc).
This paragraph describes Figure 1 of the CCC manuscript [@doi:10.1101/2022.06.15.496326], which showcases four different datasets, each with two variables, and various relationships or patterns labeled as random/independent, non-coexistence, quadratic, and two-lines.
The revised paragraph, while having fewer sentences, is slightly longer and consistently uses the past tense, unlike the original one which has tense shifts.
The revised paragraph also retains all citations, which, although not explicitly mentioned in the prompts for this section (as it is for introductions), is important in this case.
The original LaTeX format was maintained for the math, and the figure was correctly referenced using the Manubot syntax.
In the third sentence of the revised paragraph (line 3), the model generated a good summary of how all coefficients performed in the last two nonlinear patterns, and why CCC was able to capture them.

> As human authors, we would make a single change at the end of this sentence to avoid repeating the word "complexity": *"..., while CCC increased the model's complexity to capture the relationships."* The revised paragraph is more concise and clearly describes what the figure shows and how CCC works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As human authors, we would make a single change at the end of this sentence to avoid repeating the word "complexity": *"..., while CCC increased the model's complexity to capture the relationships."*
The revised paragraph is more concise and clearly describes what the figure shows and how CCC works.
```

Original text is on the left and suggested revision on the right.
](images/diffs/discussion/ccc-paragraph-01.svg "Diffs - CCC discussion paragraph 01"){#fig:discussion:ccc width="75%"}

> One paragraph from CCC discusses how not only linear correlation coefficients could potentially impact genetic studies of complex traits (Figure @fig:discussion:ccc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One paragraph from CCC discusses how not-only-linear correlation coefficients could potentially impact genetic studies of complex traits (Figure @fig:discussion:ccc).
```

We also observed issues arising from revising one paragraph at a time without context.
For instance, in PhenoPLIER, one of the first paragraphs mentions the linear models used by S-PrediXcan and S-MultiXcan without providing any equations or details.

> These were presented in the following paragraphs, but since the reader had not yet encountered that information, they might expect those equations to be added immediately (in the correct Manubot/Markdown format).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These were presented in the following paragraphs, but since the model had not yet encountered that information, it opted to add those equations immediately (in the correct Manubot/Markdown format).
```

When revising the Methods sections of Manubot-AI (this manuscript), the model, in some cases, added novel sentences containing incorrect information.
For example, for one paragraph, it included a formula (using the correct Manubot format) presumably to predict the cost of a revision run.

> In another paragraph (Figure @fig:methods:manubotai), it introduced new sentences stating that the model was *"trained on a corpus of scientific papers from the same field as the manuscript"* and that its suggested revisions resulted in a *"modified version of the manuscript that is ready for submission."* Although these are important future directions, neither statement accurately describes the present work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In another paragraph (Figure @fig:methods:manubotai), it introduced new sentences stating that the model was *"trained on a corpus of scientific papers from the same field as the manuscript"* and that its suggested revisions resulted in a *"modified version of the manuscript that is ready for submission."*
Although these are important future directions, neither statement accurately describes the present work.
```

Each point represents the average score of paragraphs from a section in one of the four manuscripts: CCC, PhenoPLIER, BioChatter and Epistasis.
](images/llm_judge.svg "Automated assessments using LLM-as-a-Judge"){#fig:llm_judge width="90%"}

The automatic assessment of paragraphs from different sections across four manuscripts is depicted in Figure @fig:llm_judge.

> It is observable that the two models used as judges, GPT-3.5 Turbo and GPT-4 Turbo, generally concurred and favored the revised paragraphs over the original ones (revision score above zero) in most instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be seen that the two models used as judges, GPT-3.5 Turbo and GPT-4 Turbo, generally agreed and favored the revised paragraphs over the original ones (revision score above zero) in most cases.
```

> The sole section where the original paragraphs were distinctly preferred was the Abstract of the PhenoPLIER and Epistasis manuscripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only section where the original paragraphs were clearly preferred was the Abstract of the PhenoPLIER and Epistasis manuscripts.
```
